Lesson Plan for Pippy

Age/ grade level: 14-16/ grade 9-10

Skills taught: Python programming by providing access to Python code samples and a fully interactive Python interpreter.


Learning Objectives:

Pippy allows the student to examine, execute, and modify simple Python programs. 
To introduce children to computer programming
Give the possibility to the children to collaborate and share while doing computer programming.
 


Lesson Flow:

Activity                                                    Estimated Time

Introduction to Pippy:
What is Pippy?
What all can be done through it?				                     45-60 minutes
Learning python basic fundamentals
Starting using Pippy

Learning more about python and Pippy:
What Pippy do?
Why Pippy and not any other Software?			                   30-45 minutes
Learning more Python programs.

Hands-on Process: get students to make small 
programs and projects using their innovative ideas			       1-1.5 Hour
and can interact with other students to create a project.

Conclusion:
Overview of all the methods and tools used in pippy		        25-35 minutes
Importance and benefits of using Pippy
Q&A session




Instructional sequence:

       Step				                                    	Assessment Criteria
            
1. Use the tools in the Pippy Activity   
                                                    Number of tools/ object used to create a Project/Program
                                                    Effectiveness and uniqueness of each step     
                                                    Being able to independently use the activity                                               

2. Presentation of student’s own Project
                                                    Presentation skills (clarity, eye contact)
                                                    Content (python concepts, purpose of using pippy)


3. Q&A	  
                                                    Able to answer on the spot
                                                    Confidence



Milestones Achieved:
Students now can use Pippy without any Problem.
They can create Proper programs in Python covering various aspects of it. 



Students now can create different and innovative programs and projects using Pippy and learn more about it. 
They can also explore more Activities.This will help get insight of Computer Programming and can develop a passion towards it.



An assignment on the basics of python and how to use Pippy would be perfect for the evaluation 
and will also help teacher to get to know about his/her teaching methodology.
